Aggregating data queries
===

In your real application, you will have pages. Pages will have addresses.
So imagine page on **www.your-app.tld/shop/productList.php** URL and part of its source HTML:

```html
<?php
$restrictor = new Product\Restrictor;
$restrictor->limitPrice(200);
$products = $productFacade->getByRestrictions($restrictor);
?>

<table>

	<tr>
		<th>Product</th><th>Price</th><th>Rating</th><th>Review</th>
	</tr>

<?php foreach ($products as $product) { ?>

	<tr>
		<td>
			<?php echo $product->name; ?>
		</td><td>
			<?php echo $product->price; ?> USD
		</td><td>
			<?php echo $product->review->rating; ?>
		</td><td>
			<?php echo $product->review->text; ?>
		</td>
	</tr>

<?php } ?>

</table>
```

There you see that data needed on this page are following:

- product name
- product price
- review:
	- rating
	- review text

LazyDataMapper executes and now he knows that on the page with URI **shop/productList.php**
there are these data needed to load from data storage.

Next time the *ProductMapper* , [as you could see at the beginnings](../1.Installation.md#mapper), gets **Suggestor**
which has two suggestions. That means, that the `$suggestor->getSuggestions()` returns array similar to:
`['name', 'price']`. And you will query only these data.

### IRequestKey interface

The problem is that LazyDataMapper does not know the structure of your application.

If there will be the request for
page **www.your-app.tld/shop/productList.php?show=50**, LazyDataMapper will think that it is the same page as
**www.your-app.tld/shop/productList.php** and probably it will be right.

But consider the script for administration: **www.your-app.tld/admin.php**. Under this page can be hidden
pages like **www.your-app.tld/admin.php?section=users** and **www.your-app.tld/admin.php?section=sales**
and it does not seem like same pages. It will be probably pages with entirely different content.

Regarding on your specific app it may be necessary to implement your own
[`LazyDataMapper\IRequestKey`](../LazyDataMapper/interfaces/IRequestKey.php).
It has one method, `getKey()`, that just have to return the page-dependent-hash. It does not matter,
what the hash will be, it has just two rules:

- it is a string
- it does not interfere with another independent page

For inspiration, look at:

### Default RequestKey

[Pre-implemented RequestKey](../LazyDataMapper/RequestKey.php) distinguishes pages based on URI
truncated of the query string. This implies that:

- When requested page will be **www.your-app.tld/shop/productList.php**,
RequestKey will extract the hash `shop/productList.php`.

- When requested page will be **www.your-app.tld/shop/productList.php?show=50**,
RequestKey will consider the hash `shop/productList.php`, so the same as previous.
Suggestions in **Suggestor** will be the same on both page requests.

- But when there will occur the request for page **www.your-app.tld/shop/reviews.php**, the hash will be
`shop/reviews.php`, so suggestions become different.

## Dependencies

But that's not all!

In product list example page (here on top) we loaded Entity which is dependent on the main - product Entity.
The **review** (`$product->review->rating` and `$product->review->text`).

As we have [JOINs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Join_%28SQL%29) in SQL, we can select review together with
product in one SQL query. LazyDataMapper give us a tool for this.

The **Suggestor** offers child suggestor(s) named by Entity name. So as we have Suggestor inside *ProductMapper*,
which gives us suggestion "name" and "price", there is another, child **Suggestor**, available in
`$suggestor->review`, which give us suggestions "rating" and "text".

Let's use it in our ProductMapper:

```php
class ProductMapper implements \LazyDataMapper\IMapper
{

	// ...

	public function getById($id, Suggestor $suggestor, DataHolder $holder = NULL)
	{
		$join = '';

		$productParams = $suggestor->getSuggestions();
		$columns = '`' . implode('`,`', $productParams) . '`';

		if ($suggestor->review) {
			$reviewParams = $suggestor->review->getSuggestions();
			$columns .= ', `' . implode('`,`', $reviewParams) . '`';
			$join = "LEFT JOIN review USING(product_id)";
		}

		$statement = $this->pdo->prepare("SELECT $columns FROM product $join WHERE product.id = ?");
		$statement->execute([$id]);
		$result = $statement->fetch();

		$productParams = array_intersect_key($result, array_flip($productParams));
		$reviewParams = array_intersect_key($result, array_flip($reviewParams));

		$holder->setParams($productParams)->review->setParams($reviewParams);
		return $holder;
	}
}
```

And we have all data for the page from one SQL query.

### Dependencies under dependencies

Dependencies can go deeper and deeper. On our product list example page we can get `$product->review->writer->name`.
And in Mapper we get Suggestor, which give us "name" in `$suggestor->review->writer->getSuggestions()`.
We can join the *writers* table and load all data in one query.


**[← Restrictor →](7.Restrictor.md)
| [Contents](../readme.md#documentation)**
